1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?

ANS: B) Neural Networks

2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?

C) Fraud Detection

3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?

ANS: C) i – v – iv – iii – ii

4. What is the full form of RNN?
A) Recurrent Neural Network




5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
a) input pattern keeps on changing


6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
c) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled


7. B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false


8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
ANS: A) Recurrent Neural network




9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason behind it could be
ANS: The reasons for this could be:

The learning is rate is low
Regularization parameter is high
Stuck at local minima

10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
ANS: B) Rectified Linear Unit
     D) Sigmoid Function



11. What is Deep Learning?

Deep learning is a class of machine learning algorithms that[11](pp199–200) uses multiple layers to
 progressively extract higher level features from the raw input. For example, in image processing, 
lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human 
such as digits or letters or faces.


12. What is reinforcement learning?
Reinforcement learning is an area of Machine Learning. It is about taking suitable action to maximize
 reward in a particular situation. It is employed by various software and machines to find the best 
possible behavior or path it should take in a specific situation. Reinforcement learning differs from 
the supervised learning in a way that in supervised learning the training data has the answer key with 
it so the model is trained with the correct answer itself whereas in reinforcement learning, there is no a
nswer but the reinforcement agent decides what to do to perform the given task. In the absence of a training 
dataset, it is bound to learn from its experience.


13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?
ans:  Machine Learning: Instead of engineers “teaching” or programming computers to have what they need
to carry out tasks, that perhaps computers could teach themselves – learn something without being
explicitly programmed to do so. ML is a form of AI where based on more data, and they can change
actions and response, which will make more efficient, adaptable and scalable. e.g., navigation apps and
recommendation engines. Classified into:-
1. Supervised
2. Unsupervised
3. Reinforcement learning


Deep Learning: It is a technique for implementing ML.
ML provides the desired output from a given input, but DL reads the input and applies it to another data.
In ML, we can easily classify the flower based upon the features. Suppose you want a machine to look at
an image and determine what it represents to the human eye, whether a face, flower, landscape, truck,
building, etc.
Machine learning is not sufficient for this task because machine learning can only produce an output from
a data set – whether according to a known algorithm or based on the inherent structure of the data. You
might be able to use machine learning to determine whether an image was of an “X” – a flower, say – and
it would learn and get more accurate. But that output is binary (yes/no) and is dependent on the
algorithm, not the data. In the image recognition case, the outcome is not binary and not dependent on
the algorithm.
The neural network performs MICRO calculations with computational on many layers. Neural networks
also support weighting data for ‘confidence. These results in a probabilistic system, vs. deterministic, and
can handle tasks that we think of as requiring more ‘human-like’ judgment.

14. What is a perceptron?
In machine learning, the perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers. 
A binary classifier is a function which can decide whether or not an input, represented by a vector 
of numbers, belongs to some specific class.[1] It is a type of linear classifier, i.e. a classification
 algorithm that makes its predictions based on a linear predictor function combining a set of weights 
with the feature vector.





15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?
ANS:  Machine learning  is a branch of artificial intelligence ans is
Machine learning is the study of computer algorithms that allow computer 
programs to automatically improve through experience.

ML is one of the ways we expect to achieve AI. Machine learning relies on working 
with small to large datasets by examining and comparing the data to find common 
patterns and explore nuances.


supervised learning,” where supervised learning algorithms try to model relationship
 and dependencies between the target prediction output and the input features, such 
that we can predict the output values for new data based on those relationships, 
which it has learned from previous datasets  fed.

Unsupervised learning, another type of machine learning are the family of machine 
learning algorithms, which have main uses in pattern detection and descriptive modeling.
 These algorithms do not have output categories or labels on the data (the model trains 
with unlabeled data).	


Artificial intelligence is the science and engineering of making computers behave in ways 
that, until recently, we thought required human intelligence.

The word Artificial Intelligence comprises of two words “Artificial” and “Intelligence”. 
Artificial refers to something which is made by human or non natural thing and Intelligence
 means ability to understand or think. There is a misconception that Artificial Intelligence 
is a system, but it is not a system .AI is implemented in the system. There can be so many 
definition of AI, one definition can be “It is the study of how to train the computers so that 
computers can do things which at present human can do better.”Therefore It is a intelligence where
 we want to add all the capabilities to machine that human contain.	